Hello friends, my name is Jai Sharma and
welcome to our
YouTube3. Is it covered in our policy
or not and after how many days? If it is not
covered now, then after how many days will
it be covered after taking the policy or
how much money will the company pay for the stone? We will talk
about this only. Friends,
before moving ahead, subscribe to our channel
because you will keep getting notifications of such videos that we keep
bringing for you. So
let's start.
Now friends, let's talk
about stone. Friends, stone is
mainly treated in two ways.
One is your kidney stone
and apart from that,
you can have stones in other places in the body too,
but mainly the complaints come about these
two things, either you will have stone in the levator, you will have
stone which is
in the gall bladder or kidney stone. So
friends, first of all, let's talk about
if you take a new policy, then after how many days is it covered in the policy. So
friends, if
you are taking the policy today, then
only accident is covered for 30 days in your policy.
After 30 days, such diseases are covered in your policy
which can happen to you suddenly, that is, for example, you
may have a heart attack or you may get cancer
or there is an accident or there is a viral
fever or dengue
malaria, such diseases are
covered after 30 days. Some
diseases also depend on the company's plans,
some diseases
which are major diseases in a company or which take
time to develop, such
diseases are covered either after one year
or after two years and
stone is one such disease
which takes time to develop, hence the
exclusion here or the
waiting period is kept for two years or one year,
now it is of one year, for example, for example, in
SBI plans, in
most of the SBI plans, your waiting period is
maximum for one year only,
in all the other private companies, the waiting period you have is of
2 years, so here also there is a
waiting period for stone which is mostly  Most companies have a
two-year waiting period. If you're
buying a policy today, you can get treatment after two years.
Similarly, if you're
buying a policy with SBI General Insurance, there's a one-year waiting
period, and you can get treatment there only after one year. There are also
some other government companies, where
you only get a two-year
waiting period, and you can get treatment for two years
in a policy.
But let's talk about it. If
you already have a stone and you're
buying a policy now, then you
need to inform the company that
you have a stone. The company will decide whether to include
that stone
in your policy or not.
Then, how many days' waiting period will it have? It's possible that the
company may increase the two-year
waiting period to four years, or it may even
permanently exclude it.
This depends on the company's terms and conditions. Whether the
company will accept your proposal is
fine or not.  If they do,
then you will not be able to get the stone treatment done from there.
This is for the new policy,
if you are porting the policy, then
if you are porting the policy and
your policy has been in operation with a company for more than two or three
years, suppose
you ran the policy with a company for two years
and after two years you are
shifting to another company, suppose you
keep the policy with Neva Bank for the first two years,
after that you shift to Care Health Insurance or
Future Generali or HDFC Bank and
port, then
all your diseases are covered in it.
If, suppose,
you complain of stone just one month after taking the policy, then
also you can get your treatment done in the company, there
is no foundation there and
legally you are eligible for it, you
can take a claim there, yes, but if you
already know that brother, I have stone, I have
stone in the old policy, then
while taking the new policy, you will have to inform the new company
that I have stone, my stone is running,
I am getting the stone treated from somewhere else,
then the company will decide.  That
brother, here I have to take your proposal or
not, if the company accepts it then there is no
problem, everything is okay,
but if the company does not accept it then the
company will either put you on waiting list
or will permanently exclude you
or will permanently reject your proposal there, so
this is your proposal
for the policy, now let's talk about group
policy, so in group policy friends,
group policy is the one which you get
from your company, from where you work,
or nowadays some
condition has been imposed, now suppose there is a
company in which you work,
that company wants that our employees should
get all the facilities only after 30 days,
for that the company will have to pay more premium
to the company, the insurance company will have to pay
more premium
to your company, this is for your benefit, but at some
other place it happens that the company wants
that we have to pay less premium, even if
some things get covered later, get
covered after two years, get covered after one year, so
it totally depends on you,
your company
What rules
and terms and conditions has your company made for you with the insurance company whose group they are typing? Based on those terms and
conditions, it is
decided there that after how many days you will get the claim for
which diseases. Suppose
if they decide that like
in other policies, you get the claim after a
waiting period of 2 years or 30 days,
if they
want to run their policy in the same manner, then the same
conditions will remain. But if they have
typed something like this that
any employee working in our company should get all the facilities from the first day
or after 30 days or whatever they have
typed,
whether it is for metal,
stone or anything else, then as soon
as you join, you get the
insurance cover and you can
claim it immediately. If the tie-
up is for two years, then you will be able to do it after 2 years.
But if the tie-up has said immediately that brother,
we need all those things immediately,
then you  You will be able to apply it in that. Now let's
talk about old policies. The old
policy which you have been running for the last 5 years or
10 years, is it covered in that policy? It is
definitely covered. So,
whatever old policy you have,
if it has been running for more than 2 years, then
almost all your diseases are covered in it, it is not 100%
but up to 99% all diseases
are covered and you are eligible
for stone. If you ever have a
complaint of stone, you
can take a claim in it. Now let's talk about
how much money the companies pay in this. If I
talk about government companies first, then it is
possible that government companies may have
put some clause in some plans that we will
pay a fixed amount for stone,
whether that sum is 25 as maximum or they
make a limit that brother, we will pay 500 as
maximum. In this way, some
limit is fixed, like I am
talking about government companies. Nowadays, whatever plans are coming,
whether they  Whether it is a government company or a
private company, there is
no limit in all of them. Maximum
company gives you up to sum amount for your
expenses, whether it is gall bladder surgery,
gall bladder removal or
laser stone treatment,
in that condition the company pays you the entire amount.
Now let's talk about private
companies, in almost
all the plans of private companies, you get
up to sum amount only in maximum plans.
Whatever expenses you incur in the hospital,
you have to pay only consumer bill charges.
Whatever other expenses are incurred
in stone surgery, be it gall bleeder or
kidney stone
treatment, the
company pays you almost the entire amount.
But if you add consumer bill add-on there,
most of the companies have
started giving you add-ons for consumer bill also.
So when you buy a policy,
you get the add-on of consumer bill, whether
you are not buying the policy or at the
time of renewal.  But from there you
can add Kanju Meble's add-on. After adding that add-on, the
company will not charge you for your consumer charges, which
means the company will pay almost the entire amount to you
there. So friends, this
was our video about stone or Pathri.
Do tell us how you liked this video. If you have
any complaint or want to ask any question, you
can ask us by commenting. If you
liked the video, then like the video and
subscribe to the channel and if
you feel that the video is helpful, then
you can also share it. Thank you.